Add Physical replication overview pages (#17989)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v23.2/physical-cluster-replication-overview.md

---
title: Physical Cluster Replication

> summary: Follow a tutorial to set up physical replication between a primary and standby cluster.

Reviewer: I think this summary was pasted from the setup task but may need to be tweaked for the overview.

Author: Ah thanks for the catch, this might be something I need to check on other pages..

toc: true
docs_area: manage
---

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
{% include feature-phases/preview.md %}
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> {% include_cached new-in.html version="v23.2" %} CockroachDB physical cluster replication continuously sends all data at the byte level from a _primary_ cluster to an independent _standby_ cluster. Existing data and ongoing changes on the active primary cluster, which is serving application data, replicate asynchronously to the passive standby cluster.

Reviewer: Question: Is it possible to configure multiple standby clusters with a single primary cluster?

Author: It is, though checking with eng, it doesn't seem like something we want to recommend, or suggest.

In a disaster recovery scenario, you can [_cut over_]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}) from the unavailable primary cluster to the standby cluster. This will stop the replication stream, reset the standby cluster to a point in time where all ingested data is consistent, and mark the standby as ready to accept application traffic.

{% comment %}A lot of links at the end of this section to general CV docs{% endcomment %}

## Use cases

You can use physical cluster replication in a disaster recovery plan to:

> - Meet your RTO (Recovery Time Objective) and RPO (Recovery Point Objective) needs. Physical cluster replication provides lower RTO and RPO than [backup and restore](backup-and-restore-overview.html). {% comment %}link here to upcoming DR tool comparative table{% endcomment %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Meet your RTO (Recovery Time Objective) and RPO (Recovery Point Objective) requirements. Physical cluster replication provides lower RTO and RPO than [backup and restore](backup-and-restore-overview.html). {% comment %}link here to upcoming DR tool comparative table{% endcomment %}
```

Author: Done!

- Automatically replicate everything in your primary cluster to recover quickly from a control plane or full cluster failure.

> - Cover different regions when you cannot use individual [multi-region clusters](multiregion-overview.html). Primary and standby clusters can exist in different regions.

Reviewer: I'm not completely clear on what this means. Do you mean using passive replication to get a cluster into a different regions gradually and then cut over to it when replication is in sync?

Author: I have adjusted this, I hope this is clearer. The main thing is if customers cannot use MR features or use three regions, but want some safety from region failure then PCR can offer this.

> - Avoid conflicts in data after recovery because the replication completes to a transactionally consistent state as of a certain point in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid conflicts in data after recovery; the replication completes to a transactionally-consistent state as of a certain point in time.
```

Author: Add the semicolon — nice! The hyphen isn't necessary for adverbs.

## Features

> - **Asynchronous byte-level replication**: When you initiate a replication stream, it will replicate byte-for-byte all existing user data and associated metadata (e.g., zone configurations) in the primary cluster to the standby cluster asynchronously. From then on, it will continuously replicate user data and metadata in the primary to the standby. Physical cluster replication will automatically replicate changes related to operations such as, schema changes, user and privilege modifications, and zone configuration updates without any manual work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Asynchronous byte-level replication**: When you initiate a replication stream, it will replicate byte-for-byte all existing user data and associated metadata (e.g., zone configurations) in the primary cluster to the standby cluster asynchronously. From then on, it will continuously replicate user data and metadata in the primary to the standby. Physical cluster replication will automatically replicate changes related to operations such as schema changes, user and privilege modifications, and zone configuration updates without any manual work.
```

Author: Removed!

> - **Transactional consistency**: When you cut over to the standby, you can specify `LATEST`, a certain point of time in the past, or future. The standby cluster will be in a transactionally consistent state as of a certain point in time after the cutover process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Transactional consistency**: When you cut over to the standby, you can specify `LATEST`, a certain point of time in the past, or future. The standby cluster will be in a transactionally-consistent state as of the point in time you specify after the cutover process completes.
```

Author: Changed everything but the hyphen, great!

> - **Transactional consistency**: When you cut over to the standby, you can specify `LATEST`, a certain point of time in the past, or future. The standby cluster will be in a transactionally consistent state as of a certain point in time after the cutover process. As a result, there is no need for conflict resolution.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we need the `As a result` bit here. Conflict resolution would only be relevant in a system where we were accepting writes on both sides.

Author: I have deleted this... hmm I wonder if added that in a comparative way to backup/restore. Anyway, I have deleted!

> - **Maintained/improved RPO and RTO**: Depending on workload and deployment configuration, [replication lag]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}) between the primary and standby is generally in the tens of seconds range. The cutover process from the primary cluster to the standby should typically take 5 minutes or under when completing a cutover to the latest replicated time using `LATEST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Maintained/improved RPO and RTO**: Depending on workload and deployment configuration, [replication lag]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}) between the primary and standby is generally in the tens-of-seconds range. The cutover process from the primary cluster to the standby should typically happen within around five minutes when completing a cutover to the latest replicated time using `LATEST`.
```

Author: Changed!

> - **Maintained/improved RPO and RTO**: Depending on workload and deployment configuration, [replication lag]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}) between the primary and standby is generally in the tens of seconds range. The cutover process from the primary cluster to the standby will take 5 minutes or under when completing a cutover to the latest replicated time using `LATEST`.

Reviewer 2: "will take 5 minutes or under" -> "should typically take 5 minutes or under"

Author: Done!

> - **Cutover to a timestamp in the past**: In the case of logical disasters or mistakes, you can cut over from the primary to the standby cluster to a timestamp in the past. This means that you can return the standby to a timestamp before the mistake was replicated to the standby. You can also configure the `WITH RETENTION` option to control how far in the past you can cut over to. {% comment %}link retention option here{% endcomment %}

Reviewer: In the Tasks page you also cover restoring to a point in time in the future. Is that worth mentioning here too?

Author: I have mentioned here on the same bullet, hope that sounds OK.

> - **Monitoring**: To monitor the replication progress, you can use metrics available in the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) and [Prometheus]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/monitor-cockroachdb-with-prometheus.md %}). For more detail, refer to [Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Monitoring**: To monitor the replication's initial progress and current status and performance, you can use metrics available in the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) and [Prometheus]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/monitor-cockroachdb-with-prometheus.md %}). For more detail, refer to [Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}).
```

Author: Like it, done!

> {% comment %}- **Data verification on standby**: You can verify that the data on the standby cluster matches that on the primary by checking the fingerprint of the data on the primary to compare to the standby. We recommend running data verification checks regularly as part of your monitoring processes. Refer to the [Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}) page for a guide and considerations on data verification.(not yet merged as of 10/10){% endcomment %}

Reviewer 2: Data verification is merged now. But I recommend we document it in a standalone PR.

Author: Ah yes, I have a docs issue around this, as soon as I know which 23.2 testing release it is in, I will start to document and add to the monitoring page for PCR.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
[Cutting over to a timestamp in the past]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}#cut-over-to-a-point-in-time) involves reverting data on the standby cluster. As a result, the time it takes to cut over will be longer than cutover to the latest replicated time. The increase in cutover time will correlate to how much data you are reverting from the standby. For more detail, refer to the [Technical Overview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}) page for physical cluster replication.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> ## Limitations

Reviewer: I think sometimes we put the Limitations section at the bottom.

Author: So, I have opted for this to bring up the limitations... mainly because I don't think it serves anyone to have them buried, particularly while this is still in preview. I am very open to a discussion on the pros and cons of this though

> - Physical cluster replication is only supported on CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }} in new v23.2 clusters. That is, clusters that have been upgraded from a previous version of CockroachDB will not support physical cluster replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Physical cluster replication is supported only on CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }} in new v23.2 clusters. That is, clusters that have been upgraded from a previous version of CockroachDB will not support physical cluster replication.
```

Author: Good spot!

- Read queries are not supported on the standby cluster before cutover. {% comment %}To verify the data, use new fingerprint feature{% endcomment %}

> - The primary and standby cluster **cannot have different [region topology]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/topology-patterns.md %})**. For example, a single-region primary cluster to a multi-region standby cluster. Or, mismatching regions between a multi-region primary and standby cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The primary and standby cluster **cannot have different [region topology]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/topology-patterns.md %})**. For example, a replicating a single-region primary cluster to a multi-region standby cluster is not supported. Mismatching regions between a multi-region primary and standby cluster is also not supported.
```
This makes me more confused about https://github.com/cockroachdb/docs/pull/17989/files#diff-095ec7fe48d1abddb2f67cca5447102d022504028606bc1b93bb4f3d102cfc55R24.

Author: I hope this is clearer with the clarification added earlier....

> - Cutting back to the primary cluster after a cutover is a manual process. Refer to [Cut back to the primary cluster]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}#cut-back-to-the-primary-cluster).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cutting back to the primary cluster after a cutover is a manual process. Refer to [Cut back to the primary cluster]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}#cut-back-to-the-primary-cluster). In addition, after cutover, to continue using physical cluster replication, you must configure it again.
```

Author: Great, added

- [Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}): for detail on metrics and observability into a replication stream.
- [Cut Over from a Primary Cluster to a Standby Cluster]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}): for a guide on how to complete a replication stream and cut over to the standby cluster.

### Starting clusters

To initiate physical cluster replication on clusters, you must [start]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %}) the primary and standby CockroachDB clusters with the `--config-profile` flag. This enables cluster virtualization {% comment %}link to CV docs{% endcomment %} and sets up each cluster ready for replication.

The active primary cluster that serves application traffic:

~~~shell
cockroach start ... --config-profile replication-source
~~~

The passive standby cluster that will ingest the replicated data:

~~~shell
cockroach start ... --config-profile replication-target
~~~

> The node topology of the two clusters does not need to be the same. For example, you can provision the standby cluster with fewer nodes. Though it is important to consider that during a failover scenario the standby will need to handle the full production load. {% comment %}this should be in an include file and also added to the main tutorial{% endcomment %} However, the clusters cannot have different region topologies (refer to  [Limitations](#limitations)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node topology of the two clusters does not need to be the same. For example, you can provision the standby cluster with fewer nodes. However, keep the following in mind:

- The standby cluster requires enough storage to contain the primary cluster's data.
- During a failover scenario, the standby will need to handle the full production load. {% comment %}this should be in an include file and also added to the main tutorial{% endcomment %} However, the clusters cannot have different region topologies (refer to  [Limitations](#limitations)).
```

Author: Like this structure! Thank you!

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
Every node in the standby cluster must be able to make a network connection to every node in the primary cluster to start a replication stream successfully.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Connecting to the system interface and virtual cluster

> For physical cluster replication each cluster is enabled as a virtualized cluster, the primary and standby both contain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For physical cluster replication each cluster is enabled as a virtualized cluster, the primary and standby each contain:
```

Author: Done

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/physical-replication/interface-virtual-cluster.md %}

> To connect to the SQL shell:

Reviewer: Is it worth covering how to connect to DB Console? They will only see the drop-down selection box if their identity has permisisons in both, so they will probably need to modify the URL's GET parameters.

Author: I have added a sentence in here to clarify and direct to that setup in the tutorial.

In a disaster recovery scenario, you can [_cut over_]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}) from the unavailable primary cluster to the standby cluster. This will stop the replication stream, reset the standby cluster to a point in time where all ingested data is consistent, and mark the standby as ready to accept application traffic.

{% comment %}A lot of links at the end of this section to general CV docs{% endcomment %}

## Use cases

You can use physical cluster replication in a disaster recovery plan to:

- Meet your RTO (Recovery Time Objective) and RPO (Recovery Point Objective) requirements. Physical cluster replication provides lower RTO and RPO than [backup and restore]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup-and-restore-overview.md %}). {% comment %}link here to upcoming DR tool comparative table{% endcomment %}
- Automatically replicate everything in your primary cluster to recover quickly from a control plane or full cluster failure.

> - Protect against region failure when you cannot use individual [multi-region clusters]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/multiregion-overview.md %}). For example, if you have a two-datacenter architecture and do not have access to three regions. Or, you need low-write latency in a single region. Physical cluster replication allows for an active-passive (primary-standby) structure across two clusters with the passive cluster in a different region.

Reviewer: The "for example" and the following sentence are fragments.

Author: I have adjusted these, hopefully they are little clearer now and expand on the original clause.

- Avoid conflicts in data after recovery; the replication completes to a transactionally consistent state as of a certain point in time.

## Features

> - **Asynchronous byte-level replication**: When you initiate a replication stream, it will replicate byte-for-byte all existing user data and associated metadata (e.g., zone configurations) in the primary cluster to the standby cluster asynchronously. From then on, it will continuously replicate user data and metadata in the primary to the standby. Physical cluster replication will automatically replicate changes related to operations such as schema changes, user and privilege modifications, and zone configuration updates without any manual work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Asynchronous byte-level replication**: When you initiate a replication stream, it will replicate byte-for-byte all of the primary cluster's existing user data and associated metadata to the standby cluster asynchronously. From then on, it will continuously replicate the primary cluster's data and metadata to the standby cluster. Physical cluster replication will automatically replicate changes related to operations such as schema changes, user and privilege modifications, and zone configuration updates without any manual work.
```
I tried to streamline this a bit. WDYT?

Author: I like, I have included your change

> - **Transactional consistency**: When you cut over to the standby, you can specify `LATEST`, a certain point of time in the past, or future. The standby cluster will be in a transactionally consistent state as of the point in time you specify after the cutover process completes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Transactional consistency**: You can over to the standby cluster at the `LATEST` timestamp or a point time in the past or the future. When the cutover process completes, the standby cluster will be in a transactionally consistent state as of the point in time you specified.
```

Author: Nice, done!

- **Monitoring**: To monitor the replication's initial progress, current status, and performance, you can use metrics available in the [DB Console]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/ui-overview.md %}) and [Prometheus]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/monitor-cockroachdb-with-prometheus.md %}). For more detail, refer to [Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}).

{% comment %}-**Data verification on standby**: You can verify that the data on the standby cluster matches that on the primary by checking the fingerprint of the data on the primary to compare to the standby. We recommend running data verification checks regularly as part of your monitoring processes. Refer to the [Physical Cluster Replication Monitoring]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-monitoring.md %}) page for a guide and considerations on data verification.{% endcomment %}

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> [Cutting over to a timestamp in the past]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}#cut-over-to-a-point-in-time) involves reverting data on the standby cluster. As a result, the time it takes to cut over will be longer than cutover to the latest replicated time. The increase in cutover time will correlate to how much data you are reverting from the standby. For more detail, refer to the [Technical Overview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}) page for physical cluster replication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cutting over to a timestamp in the past]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}#cut-over-to-a-point-in-time) involves reverting data on the standby cluster. As a result, this type of cutover takes longer to complete than cutover to the latest replicated time. The increase in cutover time will correlate to how much data you are reverting from the standby. For more detail, refer to the [Technical Overview]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/physical-cluster-replication-technical-overview.md %}) page for physical cluster replication.
```

Author: Changed!

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Limitations

> - Physical cluster replication is supported only on CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.core }} in new v23.2 clusters. That is, clusters that have been upgraded from a previous version of CockroachDB will not support physical cluster replication.

Reviewer: Did you test this? What type of error would you get?

- Read queries are not supported on the standby cluster before cutover. {% comment %}To verify the data, use new fingerprint feature{% endcomment %}
- The primary and standby cluster **cannot have different [region topology]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/topology-patterns.md %})**. For example, replicating a single-region primary cluster to a multi-region standby cluster is not supported. Mismatching regions between a multi-region primary and standby cluster is also not supported.
- Cutting back to the primary cluster after a cutover is a manual process. Refer to [Cut back to the primary cluster]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cutover-replication.md %}#cut-back-to-the-primary-cluster). In addition, after cutover, to continue using physical cluster replication, you must configure it again.
- Before cutover to the standby, the standby cluster does not support running [backups]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/backup-and-restore-overview.md %}) or [changefeeds]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/change-data-capture-overview.md %}).

> - After a cutover, there is no mechanism to stop applications from connecting to the original primary. It is necessary to move over application traffic manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After a cutover, there is no mechanism to stop applications from connecting to the original primary cluster. It is necessary to redirect application traffic manually, such as by using a network load balancer or adjusting DNS records.
```

Author: Really good, thank you!

To initiate physical cluster replication on clusters, you must [start]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cockroach-start.md %}) the primary and standby CockroachDB clusters with the `--config-profile` flag. This enables cluster virtualization {% comment %}link to CV docs{% endcomment %} and sets up each cluster ready for replication.

The active primary cluster that serves application traffic:

~~~shell
cockroach start ... --config-profile replication-source
~~~

The passive standby cluster that will ingest the replicated data:

~~~shell
cockroach start ... --config-profile replication-target
~~~

The node topology of the two clusters does not need to be the same. For example, you can provision the standby cluster with fewer nodes. However, keep the following in mind:

- The standby cluster requires enough storage to contain the primary cluster's data.
- During a failover scenario, the standby will need to handle the full production load. {% comment %}this should be in an include file and also added to the main tutorial{% endcomment %} However, the clusters cannot have different region topologies (refer to  [Limitations](#limitations)).

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> Every node in the standby cluster must be able to make a network connection to every node in the primary cluster to start a replication stream successfully.

Reviewer: Is it worth linking to the section from the task PR about copying the CA certificates?

Author: Done, good idea.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Connecting to the system interface and virtual cluster

> For physical cluster replication each cluster is enabled as a virtualized cluster, the primary and standby each contain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A cluster with physical cluster replication enabled is a _virtualized cluster_; the primary and standby clusters each contain:
```

Author: Changed!

{% include {{ page.version.version }}/physical-replication/interface-virtual-cluster.md %}

> To connect to the SQL shell:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to a cluster using the SQL shell:
```

Author: Changed!
